#summary How to localization this plugin into your own language.

Here's the information you'll need to localize the plugin into another language. These instructions are roughly based on the [http://codex.wordpress.org/Translating_WordPress WordPress documentation available here]. Once you are done with a localization, please email the translated .po file to joetan54@gmail.com.

== Download the language file ==

http://photo-album.googlecode.com/svn/branches/tantan-flickr-1.1/tantan-flickr/languages/tantan-flickr.po

This is a text file and contains all the text (in plain English) used by the plugin. 

== Translate into (your language) ==

When you open this file in Notepad (or other text editor), you see a bunch of entries similar to this:

{{{
#: flickr/class-admin.php:316
msgid "Photo Stream"
msgstr ""
}}}

The first line (`#:`) tells you where in the code the text appears. The second line (msgid) is the English text used. The third line (`msgstr`) is where your translation of the second line would go. So for example, if you were translating into Spanish, you might edit the third (`msgstr`) line such that this entry will look something like this:

{{{
#: flickr/class-admin.php:316
msgid "Photo Stream"
msgstr "Foto Stream"
}}}


== Special cases ==

*A single variable code*

`msgid "View all %d albums &gt;"`

What this means is that the plugin will substitute the code `%d` with a number. The `&gt;` (note the semicolon at the end) is an HTML character, and will get translated into `>` by the browser. You should make sure your translated strings use these `%` and `&` codes appropriately and also any HTML tags. 

*Multiple variable codes*

`msgid "%1$d - %2$d of %3$d Photos"`

Sometimes text will contain more than one variable. In this case, the plugin will pass in 3 parameters in this order: a start position (number), a stop position (number), and a total (number). The `%1$d`, `%2$d`, and `%3$d` refer to these parameters and the order they were passed in. In technical terms, %1$d will always refer to the first parameter (`%1`), and always contain a number (`$d`). You are free to reverse and/or change the order of the parameters used as necessary. Eg, you can do this: 

`msgid "%3$d total photos. %1$d - %2$d"`

*Dates*

`msgid "F j, Y"`

The plugin uses PHP's date() function to format dates. The above characters will get translated into something like "September 19, 2008". A full list of date codes is available here: http://us3.php.net/date

And more info here:

http://codex.wordpress.org/Translating_WordPress#Date_Formatting_Strings

== Helpful Tools ==

While you can edit the text file in Notepad, you may want to consider using poEdit to help you translate faster. This utility is available here: http://www.poedit.net/

Information about using poEdit is here:
http://codex.wordpress.org/Translating_WordPress#Translating_With_poEdit